README.md, before:

### Learning Python
The sole purpose of this project is to be an aid, notes and small examples,
in learning python.

### Compiling cpython
```console
CPPFLAGS="-I$(brew --prefix zlib)/include" \
LDFLAGS="-L$(brew --prefix zlib)/lib" \
./configure --with-openssl=$(brew --prefix openssl) --with-pydebug
$ make -j8 -s
```

This will produce a binary named `python.exe`:
```console
$ ./python.exe --version
Python 3.9.0a0
```

### Debugging python
```console
$ lldb -- ./python.exe --version
(lldb) br s -n main
Breakpoint 1: where = python.exe`main + 22 at python.c:16:25, address = 0x0000000100000de6
(lldb) r
```
### Module
A module is a file that groups related functionality, data and classes.
Every source code file, .py, is a module.
You can see where a module is located by simply using print:
```python
print(qiskit)
```

### Package
A package groups modules.

### Native modules
```console
$ cd src/somethingmodule
$ python3 setup.py build
$ python3 setup.py install
$ python3 setup.py install
running install
running build
running build_ext
running install_lib
copying build/lib.macosx-10.14-x86_64-3.7/something.cpython-37m-darwin.so -> /usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages
running install_egg_info
Writing /usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/something-1.0-py3.7.egg-info
```

```console
$ python3
>>> import something
>>> something.doit()
'Bajja'
```

```console
$ nm build/lib.macosx-10.7-x86_64-3.7/hellomodule.cpython-37m-darwin.so
                 U _Py_InitModule3
                 U __Py_BuildValue_SizeT
0000000000000ea0 t _hello_hello
0000000000000e70 T _inithellomodule
0000000000001020 d _module_functions
                 U dyld_stub_binder
```

### Conda
Is a package/environment management system, like npm I guess.
This is the package manager for Anaconda.
This will use a virtual environment to allow for separation of versions. Note
that there is a `virtualenv/venv` built into Python 3.

To create a new virtual environment with a specific python version:
```console
conda create --name python3-env python=3.7 -y
```

To use this environemnt:
```console
$ conda activate python3-env
(python3-env) $
```
See what environments are available:
```console
$ conda info --envs
# conda environments:
#
base                  *  /anaconda3
Qiskitenv                /anaconda3/envs/Qiskitenv
python3-env              /anaconda3/envs/python3-env
```

Remove:
```console
$ conda remove --name pyton3-env --all


### virtualenv/venv


### Debugging
```console
$ python3 -m pdb source.py
```


### lint
I ran into the following issue:
```console
(Qiskitenv) $ pylint -rn test
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/Users/danielbevenius/miniconda3/envs/Qiskitenv/bin/pylint", line 10, in <module>
    sys.exit(run_pylint())
  File "/Users/danielbevenius/miniconda3/envs/Qiskitenv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/pylint/__init__.py", line 17, in run_pylint
    from pylint.lint import Run
  File "/Users/danielbevenius/miniconda3/envs/Qiskitenv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/pylint/lint.py", line 76, in <module>
    import astroid
  File "/Users/danielbevenius/miniconda3/envs/Qiskitenv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/astroid/__init__.py", line 166, in <module>
    __import__(module[:-3])
  File "/Users/danielbevenius/miniconda3/envs/Qiskitenv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/astroid/brain/brain_builtin_inference.py", line 15, in <module>
    import six
ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'six'
```
But the module `six` was installed. Uninstaling and installing again worked:
```console
$ pip uninstall six
$ pip install six
```

### __init__.py
There are two types of packages in Python, regular and namespace packages.

A regular package is typically implemented as a directory containing an 
__init__.py file. When a regular package is imported, this __init__.py file
is implicitly executed, and the objects it defines are bound to names in the
package’s namespace. 


### qiskit
```console
$ conda activate python3-env
(python3-env) $ /anaconda3/envs/python3-env/bin/pip install qiskit
```


### types
All values have a type:
```python
type(var)
```

### square root
```python
36 ** (1/2)
```

### strings
If you need to split a long string on a line you can use `\`. Note that this
will preserve whitespace: 
```python
print('very long string................ \
        which continues here........')
```
output:
```console
very long string................         which continues here........
```


If you don't want that you can use:
```python
print('very long string................'
        'which continues here........')
```
```console
very long string................which continues here........
```


### Troubleshooting
```console
$ python3
Python 3.7.1 (default, Dec 14 2018, 13:28:58)
[Clang 4.0.1 (tags/RELEASE_401/final)] :: Anaconda, Inc. on darwin
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>> import helloworld
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
ImportError: dlopen(/anaconda3/lib/python3.7/site-packages/helloworld.cpython-37m-darwin.so, 2): Symbol not found: _Py_InitModule3
  Referenced from: /anaconda3/lib/python3.7/site-packages/helloworld.cpython-37m-darwin.so
  Expected in: flat namespace
 in /anaconda3/lib/python3.7/site-packages/helloworld.cpython-37m-darwin.so
```
```console
$ nm  build/lib.macosx-10.14-x86_64-3.7/helloworld.cpython-37m-darwin.so
                 U _Py_BuildValue
                 U _Py_InitModule3
0000000000000f20 t _helloworld
0000000000001060 d _helloworld_docs
0000000000001020 d _helloworld_funcs
0000000000000ef0 T _inithelloworld
                 U dyld_stub_binder
```
I was using the incorrect initialization for an extension. This has changed for
Python3 and I was using the syntax/API for Python2.


```console
$ python3 --version
Python 3.7.1
$ python3-config --includes
-I/anaconda3/include/python3.7m -I/anaconda3/include/python3.7m
```

Commit message:

src,doc: add __init__.py notes and example

README.md, after:

### Learning Python
The sole purpose of this project is to be an aid, notes and small examples,
in learning python.

### Compiling cpython
```console
CPPFLAGS="-I$(brew --prefix zlib)/include" \
LDFLAGS="-L$(brew --prefix zlib)/lib" \
./configure --with-openssl=$(brew --prefix openssl) --with-pydebug
$ make -j8 -s
```

This will produce a binary named `python.exe`:
```console
$ ./python.exe --version
Python 3.9.0a0
```

### Debugging python
```console
$ lldb -- ./python.exe --version
(lldb) br s -n main
Breakpoint 1: where = python.exe`main + 22 at python.c:16:25, address = 0x0000000100000de6
(lldb) r
```
### Module
A module is a file that groups related functionality, data and classes.
Every source code file, .py, is a module.
You can see where a module is located by simply using print:
```python
print(qiskit)
```

### Package
A package groups modules. What gets exposed to a user when they import a package
is controlled by the __init__.py file in the package.

Take a look at [example_package](src/example_package) and you'll find it has
a `__init__.py` that exposes one function from the one module (but does not
expose the second function in it). This can be used by:
```console
$ PYTHONPATH=./src python3
Python 3.7.3 (default, Jun 19 2019, 07:38:49)
[Clang 10.0.1 (clang-1001.0.46.4)] on darwin
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>> import example_package
>>> example_package.
example_package.one(  example_package.two(
>>> example_package.one()
one function
```

### Native modules
```console
$ cd src/somethingmodule
$ python3 setup.py build
$ python3 setup.py install
$ python3 setup.py install
running install
running build
running build_ext
running install_lib
copying build/lib.macosx-10.14-x86_64-3.7/something.cpython-37m-darwin.so -> /usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages
running install_egg_info
Writing /usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/something-1.0-py3.7.egg-info
```

```console
$ python3
>>> import something
>>> something.doit()
'Bajja'
```

```console
$ nm build/lib.macosx-10.7-x86_64-3.7/hellomodule.cpython-37m-darwin.so
                 U _Py_InitModule3
                 U __Py_BuildValue_SizeT
0000000000000ea0 t _hello_hello
0000000000000e70 T _inithellomodule
0000000000001020 d _module_functions
                 U dyld_stub_binder
```

### Conda
Is a package/environment management system, like npm I guess.
This is the package manager for Anaconda.
This will use a virtual environment to allow for separation of versions. Note
that there is a `virtualenv/venv` built into Python 3.

To create a new virtual environment with a specific python version:
```console
conda create --name python3-env python=3.7 -y
```

To use this environemnt:
```console
$ conda activate python3-env
(python3-env) $
```
See what environments are available:
```console
$ conda info --envs
# conda environments:
#
base                  *  /anaconda3
Qiskitenv                /anaconda3/envs/Qiskitenv
python3-env              /anaconda3/envs/python3-env
```

Remove:
```console
$ conda remove --name pyton3-env --all


### virtualenv/venv


### Debugging
```console
$ python3 -m pdb source.py
```


### lint
I ran into the following issue:
```console
(Qiskitenv) $ pylint -rn test
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/Users/danielbevenius/miniconda3/envs/Qiskitenv/bin/pylint", line 10, in <module>
    sys.exit(run_pylint())
  File "/Users/danielbevenius/miniconda3/envs/Qiskitenv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/pylint/__init__.py", line 17, in run_pylint
    from pylint.lint import Run
  File "/Users/danielbevenius/miniconda3/envs/Qiskitenv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/pylint/lint.py", line 76, in <module>
    import astroid
  File "/Users/danielbevenius/miniconda3/envs/Qiskitenv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/astroid/__init__.py", line 166, in <module>
    __import__(module[:-3])
  File "/Users/danielbevenius/miniconda3/envs/Qiskitenv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/astroid/brain/brain_builtin_inference.py", line 15, in <module>
    import six
ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'six'
```
But the module `six` was installed. Uninstaling and installing again worked:
```console
$ pip uninstall six
$ pip install six
```

### __init__.py
There are two types of packages in Python, regular and namespace packages.

A regular package is typically implemented as a directory containing an 
__init__.py file. When a regular package is imported, this __init__.py file
is implicitly executed, and the objects it defines are bound to names in the
package’s namespace. 


### qiskit
```console
$ conda activate python3-env
(python3-env) $ /anaconda3/envs/python3-env/bin/pip install qiskit
```


### types
All values have a type:
```python
type(var)
```

### square root
```python
36 ** (1/2)
```

### strings
If you need to split a long string on a line you can use `\`. Note that this
will preserve whitespace: 
```python
print('very long string................ \
        which continues here........')
```
output:
```console
very long string................         which continues here........
```


If you don't want that you can use:
```python
print('very long string................'
        'which continues here........')
```
```console
very long string................which continues here........
```


### Troubleshooting
```console
$ python3
Python 3.7.1 (default, Dec 14 2018, 13:28:58)
[Clang 4.0.1 (tags/RELEASE_401/final)] :: Anaconda, Inc. on darwin
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>> import helloworld
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
ImportError: dlopen(/anaconda3/lib/python3.7/site-packages/helloworld.cpython-37m-darwin.so, 2): Symbol not found: _Py_InitModule3
  Referenced from: /anaconda3/lib/python3.7/site-packages/helloworld.cpython-37m-darwin.so
  Expected in: flat namespace
 in /anaconda3/lib/python3.7/site-packages/helloworld.cpython-37m-darwin.so
```
```console
$ nm  build/lib.macosx-10.14-x86_64-3.7/helloworld.cpython-37m-darwin.so
                 U _Py_BuildValue
                 U _Py_InitModule3
0000000000000f20 t _helloworld
0000000000001060 d _helloworld_docs
0000000000001020 d _helloworld_funcs
0000000000000ef0 T _inithelloworld
                 U dyld_stub_binder
```
I was using the incorrect initialization for an extension. This has changed for
Python3 and I was using the syntax/API for Python2.


```console
$ python3 --version
Python 3.7.1
$ python3-config --includes
-I/anaconda3/include/python3.7m -I/anaconda3/include/python3.7m
```
