notes/virtual-env.md, before:

## Viratual Environments


### venv
This is part of Python3.5 and above and I think this is the recommended way at
this point to create virtual environments. Before this externa packages/tools
were needed, at least that is my understanding.

So anytime I need to install a python dependency with pip consider using a
virtual environment.

#### Create
```console
$ python3 -m venv venv
```

#### Activate 
```console
$ source venv/bin/activate
(venv) $
```
Notice that the version of python and pip and the binaries in the venv:
```console
(venv) $ which python
/home/danielbevenius/work/python/learning-python/venv/bin/python
```

#### Install packages
```console
$ python -m pip install <package-name>
```
I think packages will be installed into the directory named after the
virtual environment specified (venv above):
```
venv/lib/python3.11/site-packages/
```

#### Git
The packages and scripts that are generated by a virtual environment can contain
absolute paths which means that they are not a great fit for checking in to Git
because if the repo is cloned into a different location it will not work.

Instead we can use `pip freeze` which creates a list of packages that are
required. This can then be used with `pip install`.

```console
$ pip freeze > requirements.txt
```

The we can do:
```console
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Commit message:

Add note about pip install command variants
Signed-off-by: Daniel Bevenius <daniel.bevenius@gmail.com>

notes/virtual-env.md, after:

## Viratual Environments


### venv
This is part of Python3.5 and above and I think this is the recommended way at
this point to create virtual environments. Before this externa packages/tools
were needed, at least that is my understanding.

So anytime I need to install a python dependency with pip consider using a
virtual environment.

#### Create
```console
$ python3 -m venv venv
```

#### Activate 
```console
$ source venv/bin/activate
(venv) $
```
Notice that the version of python and pip and the binaries in the venv:
```console
(venv) $ which python
/home/danielbevenius/work/python/learning-python/venv/bin/python
```

#### Install packages
```console
$ python -m pip install <package-name>
```
I think packages will be installed into the directory named after the
virtual environment specified (venv above):
```
venv/lib/python3.11/site-packages/
```

One thing that I've wondered about before is the difference between the
following commands:
```console
$ python -m pip install <package-name>
$ pip install <package-name>
```
The only difference is that the first is explicit about the version of python
being used.

#### Git
The packages and scripts that are generated by a virtual environment can contain
absolute paths which means that they are not a great fit for checking in to Git
because if the repo is cloned into a different location it will not work.

Instead we can use `pip freeze` which creates a list of packages that are
required. This can then be used with `pip install`.

```console
$ pip freeze > requirements.txt
```

The we can do:
```console
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```
